[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: We all
love a good ghost story,
so imagine hearing ghosts
in their own voices.
Michael Esposito has
made a scientific study
of picking up voices of
disincarnate entities
in other frequency ranges.
Highly skilled in
audio recording,
he has an amazing collection
of these voice prints.
And he's with us today to
speak about the phenomena.
I mean, it's an
amazing phenomenon.
We all every now
and then think we're
hearing something
in the background,
but you've actually been able
to prove it by picking it up.
And off camera
just a second ago,
we were talking
about the intrigue
we all have with the notion
of ghosts from the time
we're a little kid.
And we were talking about some
of the ghostly things we do.
Please share.
>>MICHAEL ESPOSITO: Yeah.
You know, you had
mentioned when we
were children, some
of the games we
used to play that would
deal very much with the idea
of-- mystery of what's beyond.
So we're captivated,
even at a very early age,
when basically our whole
lives are ahead of us.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: We're
still captivated,
but what comes on after this?
Where do we go from here?
What happens after this?
>>REGINA: Well, you played
a particularly beastly
little game that had you
sleeping on your stomach
for years I mean,
this stuff goes deep.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
Yeah.
I suppose they affect you.
The Bloody Mary one, where you
say it in the mirror enough,
you turn around-- if
she appears behind you,
she'll stab you in the heart.
>>REGINA: That's really funny.
>>ESPOSITO: For years,
I slept on my stomach,
figuring, well, if I
sleep on my stomach,
she can't stab me in the heart.
>>REGINA: Makes sense.
I wasn't going to ask you about
this, but on that same subject,
what about playing
with the Ouija board
when we're little kids?
>>ESPOSITO: You know, we got
one as a Christmas present
when we were young.
And we played around
with it a little bit,
but it wasn't as
interesting as the Legos.
I mean, it's boring, a little.
I know as you get
older, people play them.
When I was in high school,
I dabbled in the tarot deck.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
>>ESPOSITO: And I used the major
and minor arcanas of the tarot.
And I tried to do everything
right and everything.
And I started having a
lot of really bad luck.
Just negative things.
So I figured I would have
to burn them or whatever.
I got rid of them.
So this was in high school.
>>REGINA: I didn't start
playing with the Ouija board
until I was older.
Yeah, I was in my
early adult years.
And at the time, I didn't
quite know what to make of it.
But the thing would
take off so fast,
I couldn't really keep my
fingers on the planchette.
It just took off,
circling the board
until it would just
kind of go off the board
and do its own thing.
And I never really
thought of it.
I never felt any negativity
coming from that.
But I know there are people that
do warn if you don't know what
you're doing, and you don't
know what's around you
and what you're tapping into,
what your frequency ranges are,
probably best not to
play with some of this.
>>ESPOSITO: My research
partner, Heidi Harman, and I
did a investigation
outside of Chicago
in Illinois that we
labeled the SS House, where
a woman, who was-- apparently
she had three PhDs as well,
but she'd been using the
Ouija board for decades.
She was kind of antisocial.
All of her best friends
came through it.
And she named one of them
SS, or he named himself SS.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: And so this
is where we got SS House.
But she eventually got a
real boyfriend-- you know,
got a boyfriend, and she
started getting attacked.
I've got film footage
of her back just being
scratched into ribbons.
>>REGINA: Oh, goodness.
It's a very similar story
through Andrea Perron
and her family's experience
in their house back east.
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
Right.
There was scratching
on the foot of the bed.
There was a door that had a
doorstop, and it slammed open.
And it embedded the doorstop so
deep in the cinder block wall,
I couldn't even pull it out.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: And the
voices were very negative.
>>REGINA: We're going to
talk about some of the places
you've been.
Later in this
interview, we're going
to be playing some
of the voice prints.
We're going to kind of set
up the phenomena beforehand.
But on the other
hand, I mean, when
I was playing with
the Ouija board,
I didn't play with it for very
long because very quickly,
it-- not typed out.
It tapped out or whatever it--
what do you call it when it--
>>ESPOSITO: Stopped reacting?
Or it stopped moving?
>>REGINA: No, it was reacting.
It was going over the letters.
It was creating words,
whatever that's called.
Anyway, it started
creating words,
and it simply said go get a pen.
And so I went and got a pen
and sat with blank paper,
and then started doing--
>>ESPOSITO: Automatic writing.
>>REGINA: -- what was
called automatic writing.
And so I was kind of done with
the Ouija board pretty quickly.
And then automatic writing
gave way to other things.
And it was, for me, the
beginning of communicating
with other realms.
And it was always very
peaceful and positive.
I never felt anything dark,
or there were no dark messages
that came through.
So I didn't have any natural
fear of any of the phenomena.
But that isn't always the case.
>>ESPOSITO: I'm amazed that
the Ouija board told you
to get into automatic writing.
I've long time said that we all
have psychic ability-- and kind
of like superheroes, where you
pick your particular tool that
works for you.
Not all tools work for every
psychic structure, construct.
And some people are
very good at dowsing.
Some people are good
at the Ouija board.
at tarot reading.
Some people are good
at recording EVP.
There are sensitives.
>>REGINA: We all have our
sensitivities, so to speak.
>>ESPOSITO: Right,
like superheroes
with different powers.
>>REGINA: And for
me, it was really
interesting because
whoever the entity was
that was speaking
through the Ouija board
was trying to set up
communication on another level.
And so once I got
the paper, I thought,
I'm not going to participate
in this consciously.
So I put my hand here,
and I went like this,
and just didn't do anything.
I wasn't even watching.
And boom, my hand took off.
It start going.
And I felt repeat patterns.
And I looked at it
later, and it was
doing letters it was
doing O's, E's, L's, and T
in straight lines.
They were perfect.
One was laid exactly on
top of the other one.
And I thought, OK.
That's cool.
And then the dialogue began,
and which went on for a while
until I didn't
need that anymore.
And then I just
kind of listened.
>>ESPOSITO: So the
entity that led you
to automatically writing knew
what your psychic ability-- you
strength was before you did.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it
was pretty crazy.
They just kind of
take me from one thing
to the next pretty quickly.
>>ESPOSITO: [INAUDIBLE].
You just kind of felt,
she shouldn't be this.
She should be doing that?
>>REGINA: Yeah, let's make
it more efficient until we
don't need anything.
>>ESPOSITO: That's amazing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It was pretty cool.
I mean, I enjoyed it.
But I had other friends who
it scared the bejesus out of
because they did get some
negative messages and such.
So just setting up.
We're going to go into
a little bit more of it
and your recordings in a bit.
But how did this
originally happen for you?
Because you're really driven
toward esoteric recordings
on every level.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
I've always been
more on, I guess,
the audio science end of things.
I was building
computers from scratch.
And I was building
a studio computer,
a mid-tower, 32-channel
German Terratec.
>>REGINA: Kind of
like we all do.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah, just building
our own computers, you know?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: So I was
building this computer.
And I was into modding
computers, which
was popular at that time, and I
wanted to kick up the frequency
ranges.
In other words, I wanted
the active response
of the frequency ranges
on my recording unit
that I was going my computer
to be below 20 hertz
and above 20 kilohertz.
>>REGINA: And why was that?
>>ESPOSITO: It's the
normal human range.
>>REGINA: OK.
All right.
>>ESPOSITO: And I know
that as a recorder,
it picks up all the
frequencies anyway, regardless.
It's like a blind/deaf person.
Literally, it just picks
up everything it's given.
It's just we're not able
to actively hear it,
or the mechanics of
the recorder aren't
actively able to process certain
ranges in a balanced mode.
So I was trying to fix that.
>>REGINA: So you were trying
to create very specific ranges
that you would be able to--
>>ESPOSITO: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: Yes, exactly.
And so I was trying to open
up these ranges a little bit.
I ran into this work
by Friedrich Jurgenson,
who was a Swiss researcher who
did work on frequency levels
in the '50s, and '60s, and
'70s, and experienced something.
He was a Vatican painter and
archaeologist for the Vatican,
and he was an opera singer.
And he discovered Electronic
Voice Phenomena for himself--
which wasn't the
first time, but he's
one of the greater pioneers.
>>REGINA: And how
did that happen?
Is he something he backed into?
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
He was taking a break, and
he was recording bird song
in his summer house in
Sweden, and captured
these voices that
were talking to him
and calling him little Friedel.
And that was what his
father used to call him.
And so he was
immediately hooked.
So I ran into the work of some
collections done by-- actually,
the record label
I'm signed to now,
Touch Records out of
London, the work that they
did with Electronic
Voice Phenomena-- it's
a experimental music label.
And they handle a lot of really
prominent European artists
and musicians, and
specific worked
on as archivist or collections
compiled by Carl Michael von
Hausswolff out of
Stockholm and Leif Elggren,
also out of Stockholm.
Raymond Cass out of
England, and Jurgenson,
and Constantine [INAUDIBLE],
who's Latvian, of these EVP.
So I started to listen to
them, and one of the issues
I couldn't get.
It was sold out.
So I contacted the label, and
we arranged a new release of it,
of the record, so I
could get a copy of it.
So we put out a
new edition of it.
And so I started to try it.
And from the minute I tried
it, I was getting these voices.
And it was such a
phenomenal thing for me
that I was able to capture
these voices that were clearly
not there when we
were recording,
or when I was recording.
>>REGINA: You couldn't hear?
>>ESPOSITO: And not only that,
it wasn't in the ambiance
either.
And it wasn't some
noise from outside,
because I was noting
special attention to room
noises, ambient noises from
outside, possible radio waves,
whatever.
And I was capturing
very clear voices
that seemed like they
were right next to me.
>>REGINA: So you said it
started from the beginning.
Now, this is from the beginning
of when you set your intention
to record these voices?
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah,
from the very moment
I started recording them.
>>REGINA: There was obviously
some kind of a conscious
response going on--
>>ESPOSITO: Yes.
Yes.
>>REGINA: --from the
beings themselves.
They knew what you
were there for.
It sounds like that's why
you had that kind of success
early on.
They said, OK.
He's ready.
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
He's ready to--
>>REGINA: He's ready to hear us.
>>ESPOSITO: It
could very well be.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: I've
captured some-- what
they call residual, or residual
EVP, or "Stone Tape" EVP.
But it also, the interactive
ones from the very beginning.
So they seemed to know
I was ready to do this.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about the notion
of residual versus intelligence.
We were going to
go there anyway--
>>ESPOSITO: Sure.
>>REGINA: --and the
BBC-- what's it called?
Stone?
>>ESPOSITO: "The Stone Tape."
>>REGINA: "Stone Tape."
>>ESPOSITO: Was a--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Tell us what that
means, and where people
might be able to find that.
>>ESPOSITO: Around '71,
'72, maybe 3, even-- the BBC
used to put out Christmas
shows, like little miniseries.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ESPOSITO: And for
some reason in England,
whenever you do have
something regarding Christmas,
it always has to do
with ghosts and spirits.
And I guess this is probably
how they see Christmas,
or maybe it's the Dickinson
in them or something.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ESPOSITO: Rather, the Dickens.
But this one particular series
was called "The Stone Tape,"
and that the juxtaposition
of the whole show
was that these
scientists were going
to rent this English cottage.
They were going to
develop a new recording
medium to compete
with the Japanese, who
were gaining ground in new
cassette tape or something.
And the actual
building was haunted.
And they kept capturing
these images of this woman
in these audio, this woman.
And they realized
that this was energy
that had happened sometime
in the past that was actually
captured in the porous
material of the stone.
So they realized they've
discovered their new recording
medium had to do with the
porousness of these materials
and how they were able to
capture this energy from ghosts
of the past, if you will,
or images of the past.
>>REGINA: Now, why did they
make that assumption that it was
the stone that was holding--
>>ESPOSITO: The image
kept repeating itself.
>>REGINA: Oh, on the stone.
In the stone.
>>ESPOSITO: Around the stone.
>>REGINA: Around the stone.
OK.
>>ESPOSITO: This
ghost-- the workers that
were building laboratory
in this country estate
wouldn't work in this one room.
>>REGINA: I see.
>>ESPOSITO: And
so they would try
and-- it was like
this ghost in there.
It keeps walking
across the hall.
>>REGINA: OK.
So this was a visual image.
>>ESPOSITO: It was
a visual image,
but there was the audio within.
The whole idea is we've
got this new recording.
It's the same idea, the concept
of what these ghosts are
being captured on.
>>REGINA: But what about
the notion of, as you
said, residual
versus intelligence,
or active intelligence?
What is the difference
between the two?
>>ESPOSITO: Well, we have
to talk about energy, then.
>>REGINA: Yes.
We need to talk about energy.
>>ESPOSITO: Yes,
it's about energy.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That was-- going to talk to you
about it a little bit later,
but let's go there.
>>ESPOSITO: The best I can
describe residual Electronic
Voice Phenomena is the energy
you feel that you might have
walked into a room just
after two people had
a really horrible fight.
And you walk in, and you
have that oppressive feeling.
And you don't know
what happened in there.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ESPOSITO: You weren't
there for the fight,
but you feel the oppressiveness.
You feel the
thickness in the room.
You knew something
happened there.
That energy is the
same energy that,
at another time
or another place,
could be a residual EVP or a
residual visual apparition,
if you will.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>ESPOSITO: And one
of my colleagues
I used to work with
a long time ago,
he used to know this house
where this man murdered
his entire family.
And he would go on
the exact anniversary,
and the time and date-- he
had all the information--
and record on the front
porch, and would almost always
get sounds of screaming
and horrible sounds,
because he knew
when to expect them.
I think that there's also some
atmospheric, and maybe even
solar factors that come into
play here, as far as-- I
used to be a commodity broker.
And when I was a
commodity broker,
we used to trade grains
based on "The Farmer's
Almanac" on the tides coming
in and out and the moon phases.
A lot of people believe
in that kind of gravity
in that kind of situation.
Well, I think a lot of the
residual EVP and stuff, when
the atmospheric pressure,
the atmospheric situation
is just right, when the--
>>REGINA: Well, it makes
sense, because when
you're having to
use pressurization
to get the files to begin with.
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
Yeah.
And it's also based on
energy, and if energy
is either resting or kinetic.
So it can never be destroyed.
So it's either
resting or kinetic,
that it would make sense that
under the same conditions that
was kinetic the last time,
or active, it would be again.
>>REGINA: Now, could
this be something
that's affected by
something as ordinary
as barometric pressure?
>>ESPOSITO: Absolutely.
No, absolutely.
Barometric pressure,
temperature.
>>REGINA: So what would be
more ideal barometric pressure
ranges to pick up these EVPs?
>>ESPOSITO: I would
imagine-- and it's just
a theory I develop [INAUDIBLE].
We don't know anything.
We're only creating
postulates and theorems,
and trying to collect enough
evidence in a contained
environment, where
someone down the line
will come up with
the answers, not us.
But my ideas would be that there
would be atmospheric situations
that emulated the same ones
when the action initially
took place.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>ESPOSITO: So there
was a rainy, stormy day
with the high barometric
pressure the day
that it happened.
Under a certain
circumstances and
a certain geomagnetic
pressure, if you will,
it may repeat itself.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>ESPOSITO: Or may free itself
up from porous materials,
like wooden floors or stone
walls, that it's settled in.
You realize, of course, when
you speak, binaural hearing--
we hear in three dimensions.
We get echolocation, like
we see in three dimensions,
because our eyes that
are at different angles,
we can see in three dimensions.
If we had one eye,
we'd see everything
flat in one dimension
or two dimensions.
Same with hearing.
Our first ear picks up
the original sound source,
and our second ear picks up
the reflection of the echo.
When something
reflects, the noise
reflects off of an object,
part of it reflects off of it,
and part of it gets
absorbed into the porousness
of the material.
So that part that gets
absorbed is the part
that I'm interested
in, in residual EVP,
because that's the part
that I try and figure it
using either whole tone.
I've done experiments using the
whole tone, your tuning forks,
or different types of
energies or waveforms,
to try and regenerate or
reactivate this resting energy,
this resting audio material.
>>REGINA: So when you
speak up residual--
I remember I was taking
notes on your work--
is this what you correlate
to phantom limb pain?
Is that part of that
residual effect?
>>ESPOSITO: Yes, exactly.
There's a school in
Lausanne, Switzerland
that does a lot of work.
It's actually a robotics
school, but they
do a lot of work on phantom limb
pain and phantom limb movement,
and actually discovered
that part of the brain
that actually, a lot of
that phantom limb movement
information is stored.
Now, the information
itself is electronic,
so it's not in the brain.
It's actually that
low-level static electricity
that we all carry.
So the idea is a vet
or somebody, a vet,
has lost an appendage,
but still feels
like he can reach down
and pick up something.
>>REGINA: Or still
feels pain in it.
>>ESPOSITO: Or still
feels pain in it as well.
That information is
encoded by a persistence
of memory of the energy
that used to be his hand.
So we know that we don't lose
that persistence of memory.
We don't lose that
image in our minds.
I really hate saying
in our minds because--
>>REGINA: It's not
fair to say mind.
Mind needs a new
description in that case.
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
Exactly, because--
>>REGINA: It's like
the intelligence
that permeates everything.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah, the
gray matter in our head.
The brain is actually
just a storage device.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>ESPOSITO: I liken
it to a flash drive.
There's no information
on the flash drive.
It's all the electricity in the
flash drive that carries it,
and it's just stored--
>>REGINA: A processing unit,
as some people call it.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah, exactly.
And the same school in Lausanne,
Switzerland, by the way,
just came up with a
couple of other things
they're working on.
One is that the heart
is the processing
unit, cognitive processing unit,
long before the brain does.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ESPOSITO: So when people
think with their heart really do
think with their heart.
And it acts independently
of the brain
under a lot of circumstances.
>>REGINA: And it precedes
the brain's reaction.
>>ESPOSITO: Before then.
Yes.
Right.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ESPOSITO: And a lot
of that could very well
be because it's actively
acting as a cognitive processor
before the brain's developed
any kind of functional ability.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
OK.
So then let's transition
over to active intelligence
versus residual.
>>ESPOSITO: Here we go.
In active Intelligence,
our energy
has a thumbprint as unique
as our DNA or fingerprints
ourselves.
And this very same school
just published a report
talking about how when
we have DNA passed down
through our generations.
When you give birth to a child,
you not only pass down DNA,
but you pass down fragments
of that small level
static electricity that
carries all that memory
from your ancestors.
So a lot of these cases of
past life memories and things
like that could very
well be just fragments
of ancestral knowledge that's
actually physically passed
down through our
birth or our children.
So we have these little
fragments of memories.
As my working deals very much
with memories and fragments
of memories, as well as it
does with ghosts, if you will.
Does the thinking process stop
when we die, is the question.
We know that there's certain
months of residual energy.
But is there also inactive
kinetic energy that's still
maintains that cognitive
processing ability,
remembering that it could speak.
Remembering it has desires,
that it needs to eat.
There's so many questions
that-- what do we retain?
What do we give up?
Actually, in the work I did,
I found some reports just
recently done by
some PhDs in-- I want
to say they were in Harvard.
Might have been Harvard, or
it could have been in Yale.
But the idea was they were
looking at schizophrenia
and schizophrenics.
They claim often that
ghosts steal their thoughts
or ghosts give them words.
>>REGINA: Right, that people
are telling them to do things.
>>ESPOSITO: Right, and the dead.
And the paper suggests that very
possibly that schizophrenics
suffer from actually
having one cognitive foot
on the living and one
cognitive foot within the dead.
>>REGINA: That makes sense.
>>ESPOSITO: And they're
flipping back and forth.
I did a record based on
that using recordings
from insane asylums
around the United States.
And the lecture I wrote--
>>REGINA: I can't really
quite fathom how that goes,
but what came of it?
>>ESPOSITO: Well, it was
interesting because as in life,
as in death.
And a lot of the
confusion that you
would imagine schizophrenics
have, the EVP also
carried that schizophrenic.
>>REGINA: That's
what I was wondering.
I mean, that's
fascinating, if you
were recording
someone who's going
through their own physical
episode, so to speak,
or outbursts, and then
dialing into the background
of what's going on around them.
>>ESPOSITO: To see if
there's any duality, or--
>>REGINA: Is that what you did?
Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: No, that is
not something I've done yet
because there's a
lack of access--
>>REGINA: Yeah, I
would think that--
>>ESPOSITO: --now
that they've closed
all the asylums and stuff.
>>REGINA: It would be
fascinating because it would
bear out--
>>ESPOSITO: That's a
very brilliant idea, yes.
>>REGINA: --what these people
are actually experiencing.
>>ESPOSITO: I've done
the same with dream--
of sleep talkers, that have
vivid dreams and sleep talk.
I've done some work,
live experimentation,
with sleep talk
along the same lines
as what you're suggesting.
>>REGINA: And was
there some evidence--
>>ESPOSITO: Yes.
Yes, there is interaction.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
Well, it goes back
to the schizophrenia.
One of the things about
schizophrenics-- in fact,
the whole-- excuse
me, the whole piece
was done based on psychedelic
drugs, psychedelic music,
and schizophrenia--
because of course, LSD,
and DMT, which is
naturally occurring,
were designed not only
to treat schizophrenia,
but to emulate schizophrenia.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ESPOSITO: And
psychedelic music
was designed to
imitate LSD and DMT.
I try and keep everything
very clean as far as my work,
as far as a nice, solid
linking of processes
so it doesn't jump outside
of the realm of my field
of this particular project.
So I wrote a lecture called
"The Housekeeper's Dilemma."
And the housekeeper's
dilemma's just the housekeeper
cleans her house, turns around,
and the house is dirty again.
So the housekeeper never really
gets caught up on the housework
because every time she turns
around, it's dirty again.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ESPOSITO: Now,
schizophrenics suffer this
because rational
men-- or people,
when they find themselves
a new environment,
they have to order
their environment
to be able to function again.
So when we pass on, when
we die and our energy's
in a new environment,
that energy's
going to need to be able
to order itself somehow
to be able to function.
Now, schizophrenics can never
find that order, that function,
ability, because
they're flipping
between the living and the
dead, one foot in this one side
and one foot in the other.
So every time they
turn around, they're
in an entire different
environment, structurally.
>>REGINA: One of the things, the
persistence of intelligence--
you talk about that when
we die, this persistence
of intelligence.
So when you're recording, do
you feel that you're generally
interfacing more with this
active intelligence rather
than residual?
>>ESPOSITO: Some of both.
There's quite a bit of
active intelligence.
There's the phenomenon that
I experience occasionally
called voice borrowing.
>>REGINA: Voice borrowing?
>>ESPOSITO: Voice borrowing?
>>REGINA: OK.
>>ESPOSITO: Obviously,
there are three ways
we can affect an environment.
And looking at Sheldrake's
work, and that we
can affect the environment
as a researcher,
we can affect ourselves
going into the environment,
or we can affect the
object of our study.
And those are basically
the three ways
we can affect a study, affect
some sort of research we're
doing.
So given that, when you
step into a situation,
you're adding something
to the environment.
And in a lot of cases, it's our
waveform, our voices-- energy.
Waveform is energy.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ESPOSITO: So a lot
of times, this energy,
this persistence of memory
trying to communicate,
a lot of time, they'll use that
active energy to manipulate.
>>REGINA: So they come
back, mimicking your voice,
for example.
>>ESPOSITO: Exactly.
Yeah.
There's a really famous one--
>>REGINA: Just structuring
it with their thoughts,
or whatever you want to
call that, using your voice.
>>ESPOSITO: Exactly.
Yeah.
In fact, there's one where
you hear this-- I'm talking.
I'm saying, look,
I'm sorry, guys.
I forgot some
equipment downstairs.
I have to go get it.
And over me, you hear my voice.
You hear it go, roo-roo-roo.
Roo, there are
maggots all over here.
And then roo-roo-roo.
>>REGINA: But it's your voice.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah, it's my voice.
And I clearly didn't say that.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>ESPOSITO: And it's
right over my voice.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Well, OK.
So along that line, I'm
flashing to a lecture
I listened to many
years ago that was
by the entity, the
Abraham entity.
Esther Hicks channels
in a group of beings
called Abraham, right?
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
>>REGINA: And they were
discussing the notion
of communication with the dead.
And their explanation was
that essentially that being
is reconstituted as a
result of your desire
to interface with that.
That that human desire, or it
can be love, or expectation,
any of those things will start
essentially reconstituting
that entity, or bringing
that intelligence back
into a cohesive form that
can be communicated with.
>>ESPOSITO: I mean, not to
play Frankenstein here, but let
me take that one step further.
Of course you've
heard of the theories
that if an object is
not observed by humans,
that physically they
start to break apart.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ESPOSITO: A tree that's in
the forest that no one has ever
seen doesn't exist because
its molecular structure,
or its atomic structure,
has actually--
>>REGINA: Requires observation.
>>ESPOSITO: Requires
observation to keep together.
So in that, then yes, we do
recreate our own entities.
Obviously, fish or whales, which
are very high intelligence,
aren't trying to
capture EVP of humans.
Once human existence
is gone, then there
will be the end of the
existence of anything
that we set our
observation to, including
our ancestry, if you will,
or persistence of memory,
or our ancestry of the dead.
>>REGINA: Right so
our need to have
to have this sense
of continuity might
be the very factor that's
reconstituting these entities
on the other side.
>>ESPOSITO: We're creating
our own living family tree.
>>REGINA: And yet,
that can still
be classified as
active intelligence.
>>ESPOSITO: Exactly,
because it doesn't die.
>>REGINA: That's interesting.
OK.
So let's talk about
you and the entities,
and the dialogue
with the entities,
because sometimes you're
just picking them up.
You're there and
you're recording it.
And you use something as simple
as this little device here?
>>ESPOSITO: I've used all kinds.
I've got about maybe
300 of these things.
These are little
Dictaphone recorders.
The one thing I have found,
and people have always
asked me about equipment--
and I've used open reel.
I've got several huge
rack-mount open reels,
and microcassette recorders,
big cassette recorders.
Many open reels, the
little portable ones.
I'm mean, the '60s Dictaphones,
digital storage devices
like this, and what have you.
The one thing I would
say is the cheaper,
the better because
noise reduction.
>>REGINA: Oh, I see.
I see.
Yes.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
You wouldn't want to
use Bose equipment,
for instance, because they
have a lot of really good noise
reduction in it.
>>REGINA: And then
you be eliminating
the very frequencies
you're looking for.
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
What'd signal to
a sound engineer,
a typical sound
engineer, is noise to us.
And what's noise to us
is-- or a signal to us
is noise to a sound engineer.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yeah.
OK.
>>ESPOSITO: And So we're
anti-sound engineers.
The source, yeah.
>>REGINA: So, OK.
So now you've recorded this.
And when you're in this
process, are you ever able
to-- I don't know.
If you're not
hearing or sensing,
this might not make any sense.
But do you ever go into any
kind of dialogue with entities?
>>ESPOSITO: Some are--
this is perceived dialogue,
because unless you play
back the recordings,
[INAUDIBLE], which is
sometimes we've done.
So we've built dialogue
over a stop-go method.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes.
>>ESPOSITO: Sort
of what a-- what
do we call that in
filming, in animation,
when they call that
process-- the stop animation
or what have you.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I know what you're
talking about.
>>ESPOSITO: Sort of a
stop animation way, yeah.
I've built
conversations that way--
or with the help of a medium,
like work with Robbie Thomas
is wonderful.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ESPOSITO: I love to work
with talented mediums.
>>REGINA: Because
he can tell you
what's going on
on the other side,
and you can ask questions.
And he's the
interpreter, so to speak.
>>ESPOSITO: Exactly.
There's a great example of that.
We are at Rico D's, which
was a Al Capone brothel back
in the day outside Chicago.
And we're recording,
and Robbie asks,
what is your favorite holiday?
And there's a pause.
And then Robbie says, Christmas.
Well, in between him saying
that and the response,
you hear this
voice go Christmas.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: So you really feel
someone who's got to talent
like Robbie has--
>>REGINA: Right.
Lovely man.
>>ESPOSITO: --is
able to help you
make a smoother
transition or a smoother
purported conversation.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
less stop and go.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah, which
is interesting too,
because, you know,
again, I deal a lot
in quantum physics of
microsound theory in sound,
and I work a lot in science.
So to use a medium
for me is kind of--
>>REGINA: He suffers a lot from
other people in investigation
work too, like a medium.
But the guy is valuable.
>>ESPOSITO: Very.
Yeah, yeah.
And what's interesting too
is this wouldn't normally
be a tool I'd use, but I think
it's important as a researcher
not to disavow any
possible tools.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Especially in this area.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah,
you'd only be doing
yourself and the rest of
the world a disservice.
>>REGINA: So the
entities themselves,
when you're in dialogue
with them, some of them
are kind of crafty.
Sometimes they don't
always tell the truth.
Some of them fake.
Let's talk about some of
the behaviors of entities
once they have your attention.
>>ESPOSITO: Well, there's a
famous researcher, Sarah Estep,
one of the American
pioneers, who purportedly
spoke with Beethoven.
And he performed a
little concert for her.
And it's obviously voices.
I try not to, myself, make
any kind of, say, this
is that person or that person.
I've had too many
years' experience.
If you were dying
for communication
from the other side, and
someone was talking to you,
and they wanted you
to be Joan of Arc.
>>REGINA: You'd be
whoever-- yeah, you'd be--
>>ESPOSITO: Wouldn't
you be Joan of Arc?
Sure. [INAUDIBLE].
>>REGINA: So they lie.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah. [INAUDIBLE].
>>REGINA: They
misrepresent themselves,
just to be able to be engaged.
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
I don't think it's
malicious, not
that that doesn't happen too.
But I think that
it's more just you
should take it for face value.
As a researcher,
you should say these
are voices, the
humanoid in form.
I worked with
speech pathologist,
out actually, out
of Minnesota, that
helped me develop
a lot of the sounds
only humans can make so
I could help separate
and look at what I'm capturing.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ESPOSITO: So we as humans,
we have a certain structure
that makes glottal stops or
tapping the t's, certain noises
that can't be ambient.
Certain noises that can't be
anything but created by human
thought.
>>REGINA: Right.
OK.
So one question I
think that comes up
for a lot of people when
you're talking about dealing
in the realm of what were called
disincarnate entities, ghosts,
and so forth, is are you
tapping into a higher or lower
frequency realm?
>>ESPOSITO: That's an
interesting question,
because I know a lot of
people talking about,
well, it's a higher frequency
and it's a lower frequency,
and that sort of thing.
But you have to remember that
frequency is nothing more
than a rate of oscillation.
There's no single frequency--
>>REGINA: There's
no judgement on it.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
Well, no.
I know--
>>REGINA: Just saying
because, you know,
they had the astral
realm is just
slightly quicker than this.
And then the causal
realms, and all the realms
of consciousness,
there is a kind
of a layered effect of the
speed of oscillation, right?
>>ESPOSITO: Well, right.
I always thought that
was interesting too,
because a lot of the
shaman, and a lot
of the medicine men in the
West-- I've done a lot of work
with Chukchi shaman because
some of the first recordings
were in 1901 and 1902
on Edison wax cylinder
by Vladimir [INAUDIBLE] at a
joint US-Russian expedition
to Siberia, northern
Siberia and Alaska.
And they were recording
Chukchi shaman doing
an invocation of the dead.
>>REGINA: And their ancestors?
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
Actually got voices in
English and Russian.
When they were done,
all the Westerners
in the village-- and
almost got laughed out
of the scientific
community in 1902.
>>REGINA: Well,
not surprisingly.
Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: But
the whole idea is
a lot a shaman and
these medicine men
and stuff, a lot of
the natural drugs
and whatever they
take to help put them
in tune with the spirit
world, like peyote
or what have you, actually
don't speed up their frequency,
if you will.
It slows it down.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
That's why I'm asking
that question, because we
make the assumption that
if it's non physical,
that it's bumping up
in frequency range.
>>ESPOSITO: It could be
higher and faster, right.
>>REGINA: But not necessarily.
>>ESPOSITO: No.
>>REGINA: Even if you're
working intuitively and going
and getting information,
sometimes it's
more to your advantage
to be able to communicate
with others, to go slow
your frequencies down
to reach into a certain range.
So I just bring that up
because of the assumption
that we generally have.
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
And it'd be interesting to
take a look at the higher
versus lower
frequencies actually
have to do with distance.
Whales communicate
hundreds of miles
through very, very
low frequencies.
And yet, higher
frequencies are usually
considered shorter in duration.
>>REGINA: That's
interesting, yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: But I'm crossing
myself here, though.
I have to be careful
because in my microsound,
the tenets of microsound theory,
which is in quantum physics,
says it's not true that the
shorter duration of sound
doesn't have to be
higher frequency.
It actually can be a
lower audible frequency
to humans, just not
building enough pressure
to be heard by the ears.
And so it's a very heavy
tenant of my postulates.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ESPOSITO: So I kind of
have to be careful here.
But in a normal theory
about rate of speed as far
as light waves or audio waves--
>>REGINA: And then
distance, right.
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
Is distance, is the measurement.
>>REGINA: Yeah, because it's a
different type of transmission
if you slow your
frequencies down
in the way you get
information versus raising
the frequencies up.
The transmission is
experientially different.
That's what I notice.
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
Right.
And the observation is too.
A lot of people talk about
Rorschach audio or pareidolia,
where you have to make--
it sounds like something,
but it's not.
It's something else.
That's a throwback from when
we, as hunters and collectors,
we had to-- or hunters
and gatherers, rather, we
had to be careful to know,
when we're out hunting,
if that something that's
going to be food for us
is something that wants
us to be food for it.
So we had make a snap decision.
Is that a saber-toothed
tiger, or is that
a gazelle or whatever?
So we had to shorten
our observation
to make quicker
decisions to act upon.
>>REGINA: For survival.
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
>>REGINA: OK.
What about the
notion of when you
listen to these recordings,
entities talking
to one another, where
it's not just an entity,
but maybe a couple having
dialogue themselves?
>>ESPOSITO: Chatter.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: Yes.
The experience alone-- in
fact, interesting places.
A lot of times, you'll
get one, two, or even
more entities chattering
among themselves.
I find that a lot in cemeteries.
>>REGINA: Oh.
It makes sense.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
I mean, oddly enough.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: Especially
in family plots,
and predominantly
Jewish cemeteries.
There's a lot of chatter.
>>REGINA: A lot of dialogue.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah, a lot of
dialogue, a lot of chatter.
>>REGINA: Why do you suppose?
What would be a
different journey--
>>ESPOSITO: Maybe
they've got more inside.
Maybe they're tighter.
Maybe they're closer knit.
>>REGINA: Closer clan
wise or something.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
I've been working on
this thing, in fact.
This stuff I did at my
forum is based on the idea
that if our energy
is passed down
through the bloodline,
our persistence of memory
and our ancestral
memory, then it
should be easier to communicate
with our own ancestors
than separate
entities of the dead--
so that our energy, your
energy with your mother,
your great grandmother,
your great aunt,
or great-great
aunt, or whatever,
has a connection that you
don't have with, say, me.
>>REGINA: OK.
And something else is
just popping up here.
And it seems to me
that belief would
be a big factor in this,
the belief of the entity
themselves, and
maybe even the belief
of the family of the entity.
So for example, if
you're in a family that
believes in an
afterlife, believes
in the notion of
leaving the body
and, OK, if you're Catholic,
maybe go purgatory for awhile,
but you move onto another realm.
So you've been
released and you're
gone, versus a belief system
where it's dust to dust,
and the only thing you have
is the memory of that person.
That's all that remains.
That could also, it
seem, somewhat dictate
the reconstitution
of these beings,
depending on your belief.
>>ESPOSITO: Belief
is a gatekeeper.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: Belief allows you
to let certain ideas or concepts
in and keep others out.
And because of
that, I think it may
hinder some of what we're
getting as far as communication
or whatever based on
their belief structure.
I did a investigation
in Rome near the Vatican
at a Catholic Church
and museum called
Museum of Purgatory Souls.
Now, these objects were
all captured and found,
collected in the
1300, 1400, 1500s
by a priest who
actually collected them
between the late
1800s, early 1900s,
where he actually
died in his museum.
But they're all pieces of
carbon, pieces of wood,
that have symbols of crosses
or handprints burnt into them,
which usually accompanied--
>>REGINA: Like the
Shroud of Turin, or--
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah,
very much like that.
But they usually accompanied
a apparition of someone
to either a clergy
person or a family member
requesting prayers to help
get them out of what they
considered the purgatory.
>>REGINA: Purgatory, right.
>>ESPOSITO: Exactly.
And the voices in that were
absolutely bloodcurdling.
>>REGINA: Oh, I bet they were.
And speaking of voices,
we have a few more things
we can talk about
that I think by now,
people are wanting to
hear some of the voices.
>>ESPOSITO: Certainly.
Sure.
>>REGINA: So let's set this up.
There are a few different
places you went.
And one place you
used to go, we don't
have that recording right now--
maybe we'll dig it up in time--
was you went to a sanatorium,
the Waverly Hills Sanatorium.
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
One of many.
>>REGINA: Yeah, one of many.
>>ESPOSITO: One of many.
>>REGINA: So you kind of go
where there's a haunted effect.
And one of them was Hazel Green.
Can you tell us
about Hazel Green?
Because we might-- well,
let's get back to that one.
Let's go first to
the ladies singing
because I like that one.
>>ESPOSITO: OK.
>>REGINA: OK.
Can we go to that one first?
OK.
So we have a woman singing.
And let's go ahead
and listen to that,
because it's arpeggio, right?
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah, arpeggio.
Yeah.
Separate notes of a chord.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and
it's very distinct.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
Let's go.
>>REGINA: That's
why I thought maybe
we should start with that one,
because there's no mistaking
that as singing.
>>ESPOSITO: Sure.
>>REGINA: So let's go
ahead and listen to that.
And I think it's
really important
to point out that as people
are listening to this,
we're going to play each one
a few times over and over.
And then you can scroll back
while you're watching this
and listen to them again
until you attune your ears.
It's like defocusing
your vision.
You have to defocus
your attunement
so that you're actually hearing
clearly what they're saying.
>>ESPOSITO: It's like a
listening observation.
>>REGINA: [INAUDIBLE].
Yeah, like listening
observation.
>>ESPOSITO: Observation.
Yeah, OK.
>>REGINA: So let's go
to the ladies singing,
and you don't have to
go too far for that.
You can hear it.
OK?
>>[INAUDIBLE]
[LADY SINGING ARPEGGIO]
[INAUDIBLE]
Just step back.
Lock that door.
[LADY SINGING ARPEGGIO]
[INAUDIBLE]
Just step back.
Lock that door.
[LADY SINGING ARPEGGIO]
[INAUDIBLE] Just step back.
[INAUDIBLE]
Lock that door.
>>REGINA: It's very clear.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah, it is.
And you can hear the
researchers in the background
talk about lock that door
and different things.
But over it, you hear that--
>>REGINA: Hear
that woman's voice.
>>ESPOSITO: --woman's
voice singing.
And it doesn't seem
upset, or angry,
or malevolent in any way.
It's just very pleasant,
and just-- you know.
>>REGINA: But that was
recorded at the Sallie House?
>>ESPOSITO: In Atchison, Kansas.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
Tell us about Sally House before
we go much further because you
have a wide array of voices.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And I want to talk
about the experiences people
have there.
You have a great deal
of respect for walking
into an environment like that.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
The location's in
Atchison, Kansas.
It's a half a block over
from where Amelia Earhart was
born and raised.
And it was built,
as well as some
of the other houses
in the block,
by an Irish immigrant, Finney,
and later became a doctor.
And they built the house.
It was one the very
first houses in Atchison,
the very beginnings of the city.
And later on, in the
early '90s, a couple
moved in-- a young couple,
Deb and Tony Pickman.
And it's a very famous
story, Tony just getting
scratched and shredded horribly.
I've seen it happen
a million times.
I've done many investigations
with both of them.
And actually, I've
got film footage
of him getting burnt on his
stomach and other people
being scratched and--
>>REGINA: What happened in
that house that turned it
into such a negative vortex?
>>ESPOSITO: There's been so many
people with different ideas.
I think there's an
elemental there.
>>REGINA: An elemental?
>>ESPOSITO: By elemental, not
in the Celtic or Gaelic sense
of elementals, but more in the
idea of Emanuel Swedenborg's
concept of a punisher spirit.
>>REGINA: Right.
What we would consider
demonic in nature of sorts?
>>ESPOSITO: No, no, no, no.
Not demonic.
Actually an entity that
was maybe angelic, even.
>>REGINA: Oh, really?
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
It's an entity that's never
been a male or female.
Never been alive or dead.
>>REGINA: Just a pure elemental.
OK.
>>ESPOSITO: Always been there.
And Emanuel Swedenborg,
in the late 1400s,
spoke to spirits of the living--
or rather, spirits of the dead
and angels on a daily basis.
And I recorded in
hi summer house
in Stockholm, where
he did most of this.
And one night, he
had a dream-- and was
the late 1400s-- that a
spirit was choking him.
And he woke up, and this ghost
of this human was choking him.
And what we called this punisher
angel, a punisher spirit,
came down and ripped the
spirit to shreds to save him.
And in Japanese
animation, there's
a anime called "Yu
Yu Hakusho" that
deals with spirit detectives.
You know, the idea
is to keep the souls
from the living and the
demons from interacting--
or the souls of the
dead and the demons
from interacting
with the living.
And this whole
concept of these-- I
liken them more to a
jail guard, or a NCO,
like a drill sergeant.
And they gather up
souls of the dead
to keep them in line
from interacting
with humans, with the living.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>ESPOSITO: And these
become very intense places
after a while with the
souls that build up there.
And you usually get
a lot of voices that
say things like, he's coming.
We can't talk.
We're not allowed to speak.
He'll be mad.
We can't talk around him.
>>REGINA: OK.
So there's fear
among those things.
>>ESPOSITO: There's fear
among this stronger entity.
And I've found it in a few
places-- not every place,
obviously, but a
few places where
that seems to be relevant.
And again, it's speculation.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: I don't know.
But it seems that we have
these what I call elementals
that-- its purpose to gather
up spirits of the dead
to keep them from interacting
on an active basis
with the humans.
>>REGINA: OK.
But makes sense.
>>ESPOSITO: Which is odd
too because the Sallie
House has had such great
interaction with the living.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Right.
OK.
We're going to listen
to another cut.
I believe this is
from the Sallie
House, in which the entity
is saying they don't bleed.
>>ESPOSITO: Right.
>>REGINA: They don't bleed.
>>ESPOSITO: They don't bleed.
>>REGINA: And no one knows
what the context for this is.
>>ESPOSITO: Actually, I do.
>>REGINA: You do?
>>ESPOSITO: I do.
>>REGINA: Tell us
the context for this.
>>ESPOSITO: We were going down
to do filming for interviews
for other TV series "A Haunting"
for their episode of the Sallie
House.
And the camera crew was
going to meet us at the house
and do the interviews there.
And when we got
to the airport, we
got a phone call
from the camera crew
that they decided that the
walls were too white, that they
were going to do them at
the hotel, the interviews.
And so we decided to
stop by the Sallie House
before we went
over to the hotel.
And I'm talking.
I'm telling my research
partner-- I'm telling them--
you know, I hate
to tell you this,
but these walls
are not too white,
because they're like
a horsehair thatching,
so they're kind of
a grayish white.
And then you hear this
voice go, they don't bleed.
Now, later we find out that
somehow, the cameraman ended up
in the basement.
And something very,
very horrible,
which I won't talk
about, happened.
>>REGINA: No, we'll
talk about other things.
We don't have to
talk about that.
Let's listen to the file.
>>ESPOSITO: OK.
OK.
>>REGINA: And let's go ahead
and play it a couple of times.
And then people can go
back and scroll back
and listen repeatedly.
>>ESPOSITO: Sure.
>>REGINA: That's an option.
>>ESPOSITO: I hate to
say this, but these walls
are not too white.
>>They don't bleed.
>>ESPOSITO: I hate to
say this, but these walls
are not too white.
>>They don't bleed.
>>REGINA: And a lot
of them come out
as these whispers
in the background.
>>ESPOSITO: Correct.
Correct.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
And you can't really get a
very good, strong location.
Like when you hear
that clip, you
can hear me off to the
left of that audio device,
so you know where I am.
But the they don't bleed
seems to encompass--
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, there are people who
would go into this environment,
and they do get sick-- I
mean, aside from scratching
and so forth.
These are really energetically
toxic environments.
>>ESPOSITO: A lot of them are.
As toxic as the nuclear reactor.
>>REGINA: And so
let's talk about kind
of the range of some of what
happens to people after they've
been there and they
leave the place.
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
In fact, my research
partner, Heidi Harman,
she's a-- was a good choice
for a research partner
because she's a Reiki master.
She's a energy worker,
studied energy healing
and a plethora of other
metaphysical sciences,
if you will.
And since I handle more
the scientific end,
I usually let her
develop the work
we do on the more holistic--
>>REGINA: That's a good balance.
>>ESPOSITO: It's
a great balance.
It's perfect.
And she has this idea, and we've
kind of developed the theory
together, that when
you go to these places,
you pick up bits and
fragments of these energies
from everywhere you go.
So as a researcher,
you're really
picking up pieces of energy
from all the places you get.
And a lot of us researchers
have been finding--
the active researchers who've
been to hundreds of places,
that they're getting cancer,
and they're getting really sick
from different things,
because they're not
clearing this energy out.
They're not changing--
>>REGINA: So let that be a
warning for anyone intrigued
with this.
Learn how to master your
own energy and clear it.
>>ESPOSITO: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Try and leave as much
behind as you can.
>>REGINA: Well, you have
another recording here
from, again, Sallie House.
It's called "Die Here."
>>ESPOSITO: "Die Here."
>>REGINA: "Die Here."
I mean, this will
give you a good idea
of what's going on, right?
And that's the kind of
entity you're dealing with.
So let's go ahead a couple
times and play "Die Here" clip.
>>Die here.
[INAUDIBLE]
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>Die here. [INAUDIBLE].
>>ESPOSITO: Somebody's
playing something on a laptop.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ESPOSITO: But you hear the
first voice is that die here,
the-- what I call the old woman.
>>REGINA: Raspy old voice, yeah.
>>ESPOSITO: The old
hag, if you will.
And the other one, a
very panicked woman,
over the transmissions
from the laptop.
You hear, wha-- wha--
why here, or die here.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Right.
You hear her.
>>ESPOSITO: There's
just panic in her voice.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>And the state of
emotion on it was
so-- you have very
evil-sounding,
a very malicious-sounding
older woman.
And then this woman reacting
to her in just sheer terror.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
And again, we'll have
people go back and listen.
That was pretty obvious,
though, that particular one.
You have many, many more.
We just chose a
few because people
can go and check
in with your work,
and listen to other interviews.
You have other types
of files available too
that people can listen to.
>>ESPOSITO: Oh, yes.
>>REGINA: So yeah,
a lot of stuff.
>>ESPOSITO: There's
just thousands.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
We just picked a few to
kind of give a taste of it.
But we only have a
few minutes left.
But what about that place
we go when we're starting
to drop off into dream time?
>>ESPOSITO: Twilight.
>>REGINA: I mean, I know that
happens with me sometimes.
I'll be starting to go to sleep,
and people, little beings,
will come up and tell me things,
or I'll hear things-- or maybe
be watching a family almost
like in a negative, people
talking, and listening
on their conversations.
What's happening there?
>>ESPOSITO: Well, it's the same.
I tend to solve
most of my problems,
or come up with creative
ideas, as I'm either waking up
or as I'm drifting off to sleep.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ESPOSITO: And so our twilight
on both ends, if you will.
When we're in full sleep,
we're busy with REM,
and we're actually purging
our brains and our stress
and everything through
our dream state.
But that twilight, when we're
preparing to fall asleep
and when we're just waking
up is very interesting,
because our consciousness
is somewhere
between the consciousness of
the everyday world, where it's
the suppressed
consciousness, because we've
got our obligations.
We've got the kids to get
to school or whatever.
Going to work, and this
problem, and that problem.
All of a sudden, we're inundated
with this real compression.
And the freedom of
our dream state's
when we're just
purging everything,
so we don't hold onto anything.
So we're in this
unique situation,
where our observation is keen.
>>REGINA: But our frequencies
are shifting as well.
Our brainwaves are shifting.
>>ESPOSITO: Our
brainwaves and frequencies
are shifting completely.
So we're in a good
position to acknowledge
and to allow in observations
of things we would usually
either suppress or
toss out at a time
when our actual frequencies
are shifting over.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I find that a fascinating area,
because we're actually maybe
hearing maybe some of what you
were picking up on recordings.
>>ESPOSITO: In real
time, [INAUDIBLE].
>>REGINA: In real time.
>>ESPOSITO: Sure.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
A lot of that.
We only have a minute left.
What are you working
on right now?
What's coming next?
>>ESPOSITO: Oh, next.
Some concerts.
>>REGINA: Is this ongoing
research, by the way?
>>ESPOSITO: Oh yeah, absolutely.
>>REGINA: You just
keep doing this?
>>ESPOSITO: Oh yeah.
In fact, I'm doing a concert
for the 100th anniversary
of the Eastland
disaster in Chicago.
And I'm going to
Poland to do some work
with some vampire graves
that they found out there,
and a show, a concert.
>>REGINA: Vampire graves?
>>ESPOSITO: Yeah.
The distrust for
the hills people.
They would consider
them vampires,
and would take their heads and
bury them between their knees.
Put their mouths
full of poppy seeds,
because vampires are OCD.
So the vampire would
wake up and have
to count all the poppy
seeds in his mouth
before he could wreak
havoc on this town.
And by the time he got all
the poppy seeds counted,
it would be daylight, and he'd
have to return to his grave.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
OK.
So you're going to be
doing recordings there.
>>ESPOSITO: So yeah.
Yeah, then next year,
doing the 100th anniversary
of the Cabaret
Voltaire in Zurich,
and the 100th anniversary
of the Dada art movement,
with recordings from
the Cabaret Voltaire.
>>REGINA: Oh, it sounds
absolutely fascinating work
that you're doing.
Thank you so much.
And we need people--
>>ESPOSITO: Thank you.
Thank you for having me on.
>>REGINA: --that are taking
the scientific approach
in doing this, as well as people
who are just directly listening
in, like Robbie.
It requires both.
I really appreciate what you do.
Thank you so much, Michael.
>>ESPOSITO: Thank
you for having me on.
>>REGINA: Fascinating stuff.
You can listen to more
of these recordings
by going to discogs.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]